Add new project areas section (#96)
backstage/community: project-areas/Maintainer-Guidance.md

# Project Area Ways of Working

> This document the ways of working that are common across all project areas, as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This documents the ways of working that are common across all project areas, as
```

> well additional practices that may be adopted by individual areas.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
well as additional practices that may be adopted by individual areas.
```

## Common

### Issue Management

Issues are triaged and sorted into the appropriate project areas through
automation as well as curation by the core maintainers. Each project area has an
associated GitHub label of the format `area:<name>`. These labels are used to
signal which areas each issue belongs to. If an issue spans multiple areas, it
should have multiple area labels.

Issue assignment is not required, but may be used to help track and highlight
who is responding to particular issues. Each project area chooses whether they
want to use issue assignment as part of their workflow or not.

There are currently no required time frames or objectives for responding to
issues across the project. There is however an expectation that issues are
responded to by the maintainers of the relevant project area. In particular we
have stale bot in place to prune inactive issues, and it doesn't look good if
issues are marked as stale without a response.

> Our stale bot is in place both to close old issue, but also to keep bringing up

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our stale bot is in place to close old issues, as well as to keep bringing up
```

existing issues to the forefront so that all issues throughout the project are
considered at a regular cadence. If there is an issue that you want to leave

> open without having it marked as stale, you can add the `will-fix` label.

Reviewer 2: Would it make sense to do a backfill of `will-fix` for existing RFCs that haven't made the current roadmap? A couple come to mind, https://github.com/backstage/backstage/issues/10652, https://github.com/backstage/backstage/issues/4454 and https://github.com/backstage/backstage/issues/2292.

It looks like issues generally have a longer stale timeout, but as a community member it would be nice to know if the maintainers are considering implementing a feature/want help designing or implementing, but there isn't time or it isn't prioritized.

Author: I think it makes sense to explore some exlicit labels to cover those cases? Potential labels like `awaiting-priority` and `needs-driver`

Reviewer 2: I like those. I know we have a help wanted tag currently, would it make sense to split that out into a architecture help wanted, code help wanted etc? A couple of the RFCs are missing both and some just implementation.

Author: Yep I think we should have a proper look at labels. I'm leaning towards removing label bits from here for now and then follow up with that instead.

Reviewer 2: 👍 , makes sense.

### Pull Request Management

> The division of pull request among project areas is based on the GitHub reviewer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The division of pull requests among project areas is based on the GitHub reviewer
```

works with the code owners feature, and also makes it possible for each team to
decide if they want individual assignment of pull requests through the GitHub
team settings.

To aid in the pull request review process there is a
[Pull Request Reviews](https://github.com/orgs/backstage/projects/2) GitHub
project, where all incoming pull requests are automatically added. The "All" tab
shows all pull requests, while "For Me" shows only the ones that you have been
requested to review. The rest of the tabs show pull requests for each individual
project area.

Note that the project area tabs will not show pull requests that have been
assigned to an individual maintainer, they will instead show up in their "For
Me" tab.

### Pull Request Reviews

When reviewing pull requests you should always use the "request changes" option
if you are leaving a review where you would not like the pull request to be
merged as is. This is both to clarify to the author that the pull request is not
ready to be merged, but also to update the status of the pull request in the
pull request review board, more on that below. If you simply want to contribute

> to a discussion in the pull requests you can leave a regular comment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to the discussion in a pull request you can just leave a regular comment.
```

Even though a pull request may only change code owned by a single project area,
it may indirectly affect other project areas or the project as a whole. If this

> is the case, reviews should be requested from the additional maintainer teams,

Reviewer: should be requested how?

Author: Yeah struggled a bit with talking about assigning PR reviews tbh, since we don't use assignment, but instead review requests. So you request a review with the "request review" GitHub feature 😅

requests during this time. If needed, the core maintainers will block the
merging of pull requests in order to prepare for the release. As a project area
maintainer, if there is a particular pull requests that you would like to have
merged ahead of the release on a Tuesday, reach out to the core maintainers via
Discord or similar medium.

Pay attention to the release calendar and avoid merging significant changes
ahead of main line releases. For impactful changes that aren't released as an
experimental feature, it is often best to merge them just after a main line
release. This ensures that the change gets as much time as possible in
pre-releases before reaching stable.

## Tools

This section describes a few tools and strategies that can be used to
collaborate and manage work within each project area.

### Issue Triage Strategies

This section lists different ways in which you can triage issues within your
project area. Issue triage is an important process to make sure that issues are
responded to in a timely manner, and that the right people are involved in the
discussion.

#### Regularly Scheduled Sync

Use a regularly scheduled meeting to cycle through all issues that have had

> updates since the last meeting. This is the approached used by the core

Reviewer: ```suggestion
updates since the last meeting. This is the approach used by the core
```

maintainers, and they use the
[`github-sync-helper`](https://github.com/benjdlambert/github-sync-helper) tool
to automatically open all issues that have been updated. To open all issues that
have been changed in the last 7 days in the catalog area, you can use the
following command:

```bash
npx github-sync-helper issues --days 7 --labels area:catalog
```

When executing this command each issue will be opened in your default browser.

> Typically one person executed this command, shares their screen, and drives the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Typically one person executes this command, shares their screen, and drives the
```

> meeting. While working through the issues to gether you typically use a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
meeting. While working through the issues together you typically use a
```

combination of the following to respond to issues:

- The driver takes some quick notes and writes the full response after the
  meeting.
- An issue is assigned to an individual that will respond to it.
- Short responses can be written directly together in the meeting.

#### Rotating "Goalie"

A rotating "goalie" role is set up, where the goalie triages, responds, or
assigns issues. Typically you would rotate goalie every week, but other
schedules can of course be set up too. The benefit of a rotating goalie is that
is provides a clearer owner of the triage process, it brings everyone into the
work, and it lets the rest of the team focused on other work. Drawbacks of a

> goalie rotation is that it can be daunting work, and it doesn't encourage as

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
goalie rotation are that it can be daunting work, and it doesn't encourage as
```

within your project area.

#### Randomized Pull Request Assignment

GitHub has a feature that allows you to randomly assign an individual reviewer
to each pull request. It can be found on the team settings page:
`https://github.com/orgs/backstage/teams/<name>/edit/review_assignment`. With
this in place each pull request where the team would be marked for review, an
individual member of the team will be asked to review instead. There are several
different strategies for how reviews are divided that you can use. It also takes
into consideration if members set their GitHub status to "Busy", in which case
they will not receive any new reviews.

#### Assignment During Issue Triage

One strategy for handling pull requests is to triage them together with your
issue process. For example, of you use sync meeting you might assign new pull
requests during that meeting, or in case of a goalie, the goalie might review
and/or assign pull requests to other maintainers. The benefits and drawbacks of
using the goalie approach are similar to the ones mentioned in the issue triage
section.

### Pull request pair/mob review

> A separate strategy that can be used to review pull requests are pair or mob

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A separate strategy that can be used to review pull requests is pair or mob
```

reviews. Typically this takes the form of a scheduled or ad-hoc meeting where
you walk through the pull request together. If the pull request is authored by

> one of the team member they would typically explain it to the rest of the group,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
one of the team members they would typically explain it to the rest of the group,
```
